# MBTA-Web-App-Project

### **Valentina Atala and Rafael Olloqui**

## **Project Overview**

For this project, our goal was to provide users with their nearest MBTA station, as well as nearby coffee shops. We developed the initial code that was part of the main instructions for the project. For our wow factor, because we are both big coffee fans, we came up with the idea of adding nearby coffee shops within a 300 mile radius of the MBTA station. For this, ChatGPT recommended using the Google Places API, which was free and very easy to use. This gave us the location of coffee shops, while the MBTA API and MAPBOX token helped us with station location, as well as Boston coordinates and location. After we developed the code, we implemented it to create a website, where users could input a location and the same results were shown. For this, we used Flask to develop the html. This project allows for coffee lovers and commuters to have an easier way around the city. 

## **Reflection**

We both work really well together. We help each other out and explain to one another when one is stuck or doesn’t understand a certain line of code or process. We met in person to work together and be more efficient. We wrote the code first, and with this, we didn’t encounter much issue. We worked through the code together, and this is where we came up with the idea to add the wow factor, which was the coffee shop idea. Because we didn’t know what API had the database to give us coffee shop locations, we asked ChatGPT to give us some options. After taking a look at all actions that were given to us, Google Places API was the easiest and more simple to use. It gave us great results after running the code, and as a result, it gave us the nearest MBTA station depending on the location that was the input, whether it was wheelchair friendly, and a list of coffee shops within a 300 meter radius of the station. 

When developing the website, we ran into trouble trying to figure out how to incorporate the coffee shop feature in addition to the nearest MBTA station and the wheelchair feature. 
We resorted to ChatGPT to ask for help incorporating this. Because we never quite practiced in class how to add various outputs with one single input, it was quite difficult. We prompted ChatGPT with the question “How do we also incorporate the coffee shop feature to the code when creating our website with Flask” ChatGPT was quite helpful at explaining how to include this in our code, and served us as great help. Screenshots of our questions with the LLM as well as the outputs it gave us are provided under the screenshots folder. After this issue, we ran into some more trouble. While our terminals looked fine, there seemed to be an issue given that when we tried to press continue with the location inserted in the text box, we got another error message in the site. Pictures of these error messages are also provided in the screenshots folder. We looked over our code, but it seemed fine to us. We were stuck on what to do, so we added the error messages into ChatGPT. It responded by saying we have to install requests and certifi in our command prompt due to a SSL verification error. After doing this, our website ran perfectly. 

Since we have our final project to work on, we would work on some things differently. For this project, when we got stuck on a step, we would get really frustrated and lose hope. Next time, we would like to take a break when we are feeling like this. Also, for our final project, we would like to dedicate more time, or set bi-weekly meetings on a set day and time to set that time apart to really lock in and work. We found that working in person is way more efficient than doing video calls, or just separating the work. Together, we help each other out and share ideas and opinions. 

This project really helped us, since our final project uses somewhat the same concepts and applications. We got good practice on how to develop a website, which will help us greatly for our final project. Overall, this project was somewhat challenging due to the unforeseen issues we encountered, but it was also the most intuitive and entertaining one we have had. We liked how we had the chance to add our own creative twist to it, which in this case, was adding the coffee shop features since we are both big coffee lovers. 
